3963 dbt on astro (#3964)
astronomer/docs: astro/deploy-dbt-project.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Deploy a dbt project'
title: 'Deploy dbt projects to Astro'
id: deploy-dbt-project
description: Learn how to deploy dbt projects to Astro.
---
import HostedBadge from '@site/src/components/HostedBadge';

<HostedBadge/>

:::privatepreview
:::

> Use dbt on Astro, so you can now deploy your dbt projects directly to Astro, without changes tied to updates to your DAGs or full image code deploys. When you use a dbt project deploy, Astro bundles all files in your dbt project and pushes them to Astro, where they are mounted on your Airflow containers so that your DAGs can access them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use dbt Deploys to deploy your dbt projects directly to Astro without changing your DAGs or making an image deploy. This is ideal for deploying dbt code that lives outside of your Astro project 

When you use a dbt project deploy, Astro bundles all files in your dbt project and pushes them to Astro, where they are mounted on your Airflow containers so that your DAGs can access them.
```

> Use dbt on Astro, so you can now deploy your dbt projects directly to Astro, without changes tied to updates with your DAGs or full image code deploys. When you use a dbt project deploy, Astro bundles all files in your dbt project and pushes them to Astro, where they are mounted on your Airflow containers so that your DAGs can access them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use dbt on Astro, so you can now deploy your dbt projects directly to Astro, without changes tied to updates to your DAGs or full image code deploys. When you use a dbt project deploy, Astro bundles all files in your dbt project and pushes them to Astro, where they are mounted on your Airflow containers so that your DAGs can access them.
```

Reviewer 2: This sentence didn't scan for me at first, so thought that this change might make it clearer.

## Prerequisites

- An Astro Deployment
- An Astro Project that includes your dbt project

## Step 1: Deploy your full Astro image

> ``bash

Reviewer: <img width="1054" alt="Screenshot 2024-07-23 at 1 50 43 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f04dfbbe-69f0-454b-8af2-9d823ebe4d3b">
Think there's a formatting thing here that makes it not show as bash in PR preview!

> ``bash

Author: ```suggestion
```bash
```

astro deploy

```

## Step 2: Deploy your dbt project

Choose a Deployment that you want to deploy your dbt project to.

```bash

astro dbt deploy

```

:::tip

> If you have a dbt project in a different location than your Astro Project, such as a different folder in your local environment or at a different path, you can specify the mount path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your dbt code is accessed at a different path or folder than the default path, specify the mount path.
```

```bash

> astro dbt deploy --mount-path /usr/local/airflow/dbt/example-dbt-project

Reviewer: Should this link to the CLI documentation on the commands at all? Could be helpful

Author: Agreed. Right now because they are in separate PR's, it will throw a build error, so it has to be a fast follow after we merge tomorrow

---
sidebar_label: 'Deploy a dbt project'
title: 'Deploy dbt projects to Astro'
id: deploy-dbt-project
description: Learn how to deploy dbt projects to Astro.
---
import HostedBadge from '@site/src/components/HostedBadge';

<HostedBadge/>

:::privatepreview
:::

Use dbt Deploys to deploy your dbt projects directly to Astro without changing your DAGs or making an image deploy. This is ideal for deploying dbt code that lives outside of your Astro project 

When you use a dbt project deploy, Astro bundles all files in your dbt project and pushes them to Astro, where they are mounted on your Airflow containers so that your DAGs can access them.

## Prerequisites

- An Astro Deployment

> - An Astro Project that includes your dbt project

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- An Astro project
- A dbt project
```

I feel like separate right? Because the Astro project is in theory in a different repo? Or either way -- it's a separate thing?

> ## Step 1: Deploy your full Astro image
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Deploy your full Astro image

In order to first deploy a dbt project to Astro, Astronomer recommends that you have an Astro project already running on your Deployment with DAGs that need to read from dbt. That way, your dbt project will be read and used when you deploy it.

If you are using a new Deployment, first deploy your Astro project with the Astro CLI by running:
```

Reviewer 3: Does this make sense? I didn't specify what would happen if you DON'T do this but basically.. this step is optional. It's just that if you do a dbt deploy without doing an image deploy then "nothing happens" bc there are no DAGs to call your dbt stuff if that makes sense

```bash

astro deploy

```

## Step 2: Deploy your dbt project

Choose a Deployment that you want to deploy your dbt project to.

```bash

astro dbt deploy

```

:::tip

If your dbt code is accessed at a different path or folder than the default path, specify the mount path.

```bash

astro dbt deploy --mount-path /usr/local/airflow/dbt/example-dbt-project

```
:::

## Step 3: Delete your dbt project

```bash

astro dbt delete

> ```

Reviewer 3: @iancmoritz Can you explain what dbt delete is? No context here 🤔 Do you have to do it?

---
sidebar_label: 'Deploy a dbt project'
title: 'Deploy dbt projects to Astro'
id: deploy-dbt-project
description: Learn how to deploy and run dbt projects with Apache Airflow on Astro.
---
import HostedBadge from '@site/src/components/HostedBadge';

<HostedBadge/>

:::privatepreview
:::

To orchestrate dbt jobs with Apache Airflow, you need to deploy your dbt project to Astro alongside your DAGs and the rest of your Airflow code. dbt Deploys allow you to easily deploy your dbt project to Astro without needing complex processes to incorporate your two sets of code. When you use a dbt project deploy, Astro bundles all files in your dbt project and pushes them to Astro, where they are mounted on your Airflow containers so that your DAGs can access them.

Depending on your organization's software development lifecycle, your dbt project might live in the same Git repository as your Airflow code or in a different repository. Astronomer supports both methods but recommends having a dedicated Git repository for your dbt code that is separate from your Airflow code. 

> To learn more about running dbt core or dbt Cloud with Apache Airflow, see [Orchestrate dbt Core jobs with Airflow](/learn/airflow-dbt.md).

Author: ```suggestion
To learn more about running dbt core or dbt Cloud with Apache Airflow, see [Orchestrate dbt Core jobs with Airflow](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/learn/airflow-dbt).
```
